.\" Manpage for yayfzf
.TH yayfzf 1 "2026-05-14" "2.0.19" "yayfzf manual"

.SH NAME
yayfzf \- fullscreen interactive AUR and repo package manager using yay and fzf

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B yayfzf
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.RI [ SEARCH\ QUERY ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B yayfzf
is a fullscreen interactive package manager for Arch Linux systems. It uses
.BR yay (8)
for package operations and
.BR fzf (1)
for interactive package search, selection, installation, removal, and system updates.

When started without a search query,
.B yayfzf
opens the main menu. When a search query is provided, it is used as the initial package search query.

.SH OPTIONS

.SS Package Search

.TP
.BI "\-\-sort\-by " "sort option"
Set the package search sort order.

Supported values:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.B popularity
.IP \(bu 2
.B votes
.IP \(bu 2
.B last_updated
.RE

.TP
.B \-\-no\-preview
Disable the package information preview window.

.SS Themes

.TP
.BI "\-t, \-\-theme " theme
Set the built-in fzf color theme.

.TP
.B \-l, \-\-list\-themes
Show the list of built-in themes and exit.

.TP
.B \-\-preview\-themes
Interactively preview and select a built-in theme.

After selecting a theme,
.B yayfzf
launches with the selected theme. When that themed session exits, the theme selector is shown again.

.SS Configuration

.TP
.B \-i, \-\-init\-config
Install an example configuration file to the XDG config directory and exit.

.TP
.B \-s, \-\-show\-config
Show the active example configuration file content and exit.

If a user configuration file exists, it is shown. Otherwise, the built-in example configuration is printed.

.SS Information

.TP
.B \-k, \-\-keybindings
Show the list of available keybindings and exit.

.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Show verbose output.

.TP
.B \-h
Show the short help text and exit.

.TP
.B \-\-help
Show full help, including examples, keybindings, config file locations, version, and author information, then exit.

.TP
.B \-\-help\-man
Show the man page and exit.

.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Show the
.B yayfzf
version and exit.

.SH EXAMPLES

.TP
.B yayfzf
Open the main menu.

.TP
.B yayfzf fzf
Start
.B yayfzf
with an initial search query of
.BR fzf .

.TP
.B yayfzf \-\-sort\-by votes
Search packages sorted by votes.

.TP
.B yayfzf \-\-theme dracula
Start
.B yayfzf
using the
.B dracula
theme.

.TP
.B yayfzf \-\-list\-themes
Show all built-in themes.

.TP
.B yayfzf \-\-preview\-themes
Open the interactive theme selector.

.TP
.B yayfzf \-\-no\-preview
Start
.B yayfzf
with the package preview window disabled.

.TP
.B yayfzf \-\-init\-config
Install an example configuration file.

.TP
.B yayfzf \-h
Show the short help menu.

.SH KEYBINDINGS

.SS Navigation

.TP
.B Up / Down
Move the cursor up or down.

.TP
.B PGUP
Move up one page.

.TP
.B PGDN
Move down one page.

.TP
.B HOME
Move to the first item.

.TP
.B END
Move to the last item.

.SS Selection

.TP
.B TAB
Select the current item.

.TP
.B Shift\-TAB
Unselect the current item.

.TP
.B Ctrl\-a
Select all items.

.TP
.B Ctrl\-d
Deselect all selected items.

.SS Actions

.TP
.B ENTER
Perform the default action for the current selection.

.TP
.B Ctrl\-i
Install the selected package or packages.

.TP
.B Ctrl\-r
Remove the selected package.

.TP
.B Ctrl\-u
Update all packages.

.SS Query

.TP
.B Ctrl\-l
Clear the current query, clear the screen, and clear the current selection.

.TP
.B Ctrl\-Backspace
Clear the current query.

.SS Layout

.TP
.B Ctrl\-/
Cycle the preview window position and size.

.TP
.B Ctrl\-v
Toggle the preview window.

.SS Help

.TP
.B ?
Show keybindings in the preview window.

.SS Exit

.TP
.B Ctrl\-c
Exit
.BR yayfzf .

.TP
.B Ctrl\-w
Exit
.BR yayfzf .

.TP
.B ESC
Exit
.BR yayfzf .

.SH CONFIGURATION

.B yayfzf
loads the first configuration file found from the following locations, in order:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.BR "$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/yayfzf/yayfzf.conf"
.IP \(bu 2
.BR "$HOME/.config/yayfzf/yayfzf.conf"
.IP \(bu 2
.BR "$HOME/.yayfzf.conf"
.RE

The configuration file is a shell-style file that can override default settings.

.SH ENVIRONMENT

.TP
.B THEME
Default built-in theme.

Default:
.RS
.B default
.RE

.TP
.B SORT_BY
Default package search sort order.

Supported values:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.B popularity
.IP \(bu 2
.B votes
.IP \(bu 2
.B last_updated
.RE

Default:
.RS
.B popularity
.RE

.TP
.B PREVIEW_WINDOW
Controls the layout and size of the fzf package preview window.

The value is passed directly to fzf's
.BR \-\-preview\-window
option.

Default:
.RS
.B right:60%:wrap
.RE

.TP
.B LAYOUT
Controls the fzf layout.

Default:
.RS
.B reverse
.RE

.TP
.B BORDER
Controls the fzf border style.

Default:
.RS
.B rounded
.RE

.TP
.B YAYFZF_PROMPT
Controls the fzf prompt text.

Default:
.RS
.B yayfzf>
.RE

.TP
.B ENABLE_PREVIEW
Enable or disable the package information preview window.

Set to
.B false
to disable the package preview window.

Default:
.RS
.B true
.RE

.TP
.B VERBOSE
Enable verbose output.

Set to
.B true
to show verbose messages.

Default:
.RS
.B false
.RE

.TP
.B YAYFZF_PAGER
Pager used when showing configuration or other long-form output.

Default:
.RS
.BR "$PAGER" ,
or
.B less
when
.B PAGER
is not set.
.RE

.TP
.B CTRL_C_CLOSE
Controls whether an empty fzf selection exits
.BR yayfzf .

Default:
.RS
.B true
.RE

.TP
.B NO_COLOR
Disable ANSI color output.

When set to
.BR true ,
.B yayfzf
disables colored output in messages and disables yay color output.

.SH FILES

.TP
.B $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/yayfzf/yayfzf.conf
Primary XDG configuration file.

.TP
.B $HOME/.config/yayfzf/yayfzf.conf
Default configuration path when
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
is not set.

.TP
.B $HOME/.yayfzf.conf
Legacy fallback configuration file.

.SH EXIT STATUS

.TP
.B 0
Command completed successfully.

.TP
.B non-zero
An error occurred, a dependency was missing, or a package operation failed.

.SH DEPENDENCIES

.B yayfzf
requires:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.B bash
.IP \(bu 2
.B yay
.IP \(bu 2
.B fzf
.IP \(bu 2
.B awk
.IP \(bu 2
.B sed
.IP \(bu 2
.B tr
.IP \(bu 2
.B tput
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fzf (1),
.BR yay (8)

.SH AUTHOR
Conner Will <conner.will@connerwill.com>
